Is RAM then a huge array?
>> RAM is exactly a huge array, yes.
That's the way to think about it.
>> Are the A0,
A1 in this case part of the registers or
the ALU he was talking about earlier?
>> They are part of the registers
in the sense that you can read and
write into them.
But certain registers
have specialized roles.
What I mean by that is,
if you have a number and
you wanna multiply it and
the number happens to be an A0,
A0 usually cannot be part of
a multiplication operation.
Right so you have to move it from
A0 to one of the registers that
know how to multiply etc.
So you can think of it as
these registers are for
the most part general purpose but
some know how to do
certain things while others do not
know how to do certain things right?
So the the address register the why the
reason why it's called A it's because it's
really good at adding things together and
using that as a offset into the memory,
right?
So if you wanna do that operation, you
can't really do it out of an R0 register.
R0 register is not really good at that.
So typically CPUs have
specialized registers.
Like program counter is
an example of highly specialized
register that you can read and write into.
But you do it through a special
set of instructions and
it has automatic behavior,
it automatically increments and so on.
Same thing with a stack pointer.
So yeah, they're all registers, but
they're specialized in the sense
that certain registers can
only do certain operations.
>> Does it mean there's a tone
of general registers just a few.
>> Yeah, so typical modern CPU.
I don't know it's been a while since I
done this, but I would guess that we're
talking on the order of like
60 general purpose registers.
On the order of like 24 these
address index registers and
then a handful of programmed counters,
stack pointer, flag registers and so on.
And that's what you get.
There's also super specialized registers,
which I think modern CPUs have called
SIMD, single instruction multiple data,
where you say, like,
I wanna do a multiplication, right?
But I don't just wanna do a multiplication
on like two numbers I wanna do on
a matrix, right?
So like, let me load 50 different
values into specialized 50 registers.
And now do multiply by five,
all of them all at once, right?
So these are super specialized things and
they're useful for
really graphics and these days AI, right?
But once you get into AI,
because you think about what AI is,
AI is whole bunch of multiplications,
right?
Because you're doing statistics
is really what it comes down to.
And so when you get to the AI world,
there you have like super
specialized hardware that can
just rip through tons and
tons of data, in terms of multiplications.
So the idea is, if you just wanna multiply
things over and over and over again like
a huge matrix, then you know what
the set of instructions are, right?
So you don't have to have a program
counter that goes read and
all these other machinery.
Instead, you have a specialized pipeline
that just gets reads the memory
in sequence.
And then multiplies it and then spits it
out to a different location memory, right,
and can just process this
in extremely fast things.
And so if you look at modern CPUs,
they have a dedicated neural nets or
whatever you wanna call it, right?
All it is is a big array of multipliers.
And these arrays are really good at,
you set them up with the initial
parameter saying,
this is where the A part of the matrix is,
this is where the B part of the matrix is,
go.
And then, the matrix might be 50,000
euros or something like that.
And so it just rips through them
without any sort of sub routines or or
any other additional things.
It just knows how to do that and
knows how to do it really well.
>> So these are hardware differences,
the registers, then.
>> Hardware differences also
differences of architectures, right?
So when you're talking about a Intel CPU,
the instructions, numbers have
a special meeting, and also the registers
have a certain layout, right?
The instructions assume
certain register layout.
So part of the reason why you can't
just take a code from Intel and run
it on an M1 chip without translation right
is because the M1 chip is a RISC chip.
And because of that it has
different register layout.
And obviously it has a different
set of instructions have different
meaning, right?
So nothing really fits inside of these two
architectures like the CPUs are different,
the layout of the registers are different.
And so things just don't work.
And that's why you have to
really compile it separately.
Yes.
>> So I always thought of like
JavaScript and the JavaScript engine has
been something that's multiple
layers removed from the hardware.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that still what the case is?
>> Yes
>> Does the JavaScript engine
actually have access to the bare metal or,
>> The engine absolutely, yes.
So the VA has basically via
generates these instructions, right.
So what I wanna show you here
in this first phase of the kind
of the presentation is I wanna show
you what the hardware level is.
I wanna show you what
the capabilities of the CPU are.
Because once you understand
the capabilities and
you know what JavaScript is, you'd be
like, wait, there is this chasm, right?
How do you fill this chasm?
And that's the thing that will
determine how things perform, right?
Because in order to fill this chasm,
the V8 has to do tricks.
And how do these tricks work?
And then once you see how these tricks
work, it becomes totally obvious why
certain things are fast or
some of the things are slow.